List of schools at https://www.education.ie/en/Publications/Statistics/Data-on-Individual-Schools/
  want to take out emails from list, and from teacher’s emails (seeing any outside hosts, e.g. gmail)
  this will give the domain name, -> IP address -> look at dns/zgrab for info

Search by roll at https://www.education.ie/en/find-a-school/School-Detail/?roll=XXXXXX to get education.ie page for each school, where email and website can be found and compared to the above
  there's a bunch of schools without emails or urls given

Remove any emails at non-school addresses (e.g. eircom.net)

Compare 3 pages found to get ip and associated url
  -note some have multiple ip addresses -> need to try zgrab for both...
  -there's loads of schools with differences between these 3
  -i noticed a lot of 301 status codes (meaning moved permanently),
  which could have meant that i was using the wrong of the 3 urls,
  so i changed AddWebDetail so it checks through all 3 urls
  to find the most suitable (based on a hierarchy of status codes; 20x > 30x> 40x/50x (could be done better?))
    idk how good of an idea this was :)

Perform DNS lookup on these urls (on most suitable url(~) for each school)
  looking for;
    AAAA - IPv6 address
    MX - record of mail server (mail host)
    DS - fp which is set to the website the first time a user connects to it, so when website is accessed again, can see if ip has that fingerprint, i.e. if it doesn't, someone else is pretending to be that website
      -useful, but hard/annoying to implement?
    CAA - who can give certs (without one, anyone can give certs)
    SPF - says who can send mail (without one, anyone can send emails from that url?)
    TXT - readable info? -spf often found here???
    CNAME - pointer, will show host if any

Perform zgrab on these urls (on most suitable url(~) for each school)
  looking for; (?)
    port 80 - HTTP-dets
    port 443, with SNI - TLS-dets, HTTP-dets
    port 443, without SNI - TLS-dets, HTTP-dets
  notes:
    looks for the most suitable of the 3 urls by going with the first result found, but prioritising those with paths
    if port 80 returns a 30x, goes to the redirect (if it's different from the url just used), and uses that data instead, because that's the site that's actually used
      all redirections are stored in schools2019.xlsx in column 'AN'
    increased the timeout from 4 to 15 because several schools just needed more time to respond



Columns;
  email from list,
  website of email (invalid ones removed)
  roll number
  education.ie web page associated with roll number
  eircode
  email from education.ie page (indiv pg) (host removed)
  url from education.ie
  ip
  url
  dns lookup;
    AAAA
    MX
    DS
    CAA
    SPF
    TXT
  zgrab stuff
    order: port 80, 443(goes to default), 443 with sni;
      status_code (indicates if request successful)
      body_len
      !port 80;
        names (website host - who signed certificate?)
        fp (fingerprint (key))
        timely (if cert expired)
        self_signed (signed their own SSL cert (~issues...))
        rsalen (lengths of rsa public keys (bigger is better, should be 2^n))
        cipher_suite (method of encryption (which ones are good/bad?))
        browser_trusted (if who signed their cert is good(on a list))
  CNAME (should be in dns lookup, but was only added later)
  A (same; just making sure there's nothing weird)
  errors
  url used
  redirects


Then look at the data:
  parseZgrab: shows all the info from zgrab
  parseMX/names: shows mx info from dnslookup, and names from zgrab
  parseDNS: shows dns info
  parseCipherSuites: shows how many schools used weak cipher suites
  parsefp: shows any duplicate fp's with different hosts
  parseKeyLengths: shows if any key lengths != 2^n
  search: can look up all info on a given school
  ...


Looking at data:
  data:
    dns: basically nothing, except for IPv6 which has a few
    zgrab:
      key lengths: all ok
      cipher suites: quite a lot with 0x2f, otherwise ok
      fp: ok
      bools:
        timely: ~80% (ok, but should notify)
        self signed:~30% (ok, not great)
        browser trusted: ~50% (not great) (except 2019 443 without sni: 70%)
    mx: mostly hosted...
    names:
      with sni: mostly hosted (makes sense?)
      without sni: ~50% (ok, still notable)
  overall:
    zgrab, names: ok not great
    dns, mx: bad(?)
  differences between 2018 and 2019:
    [Note]: success rate for zgrab might be different between years, so should be looking for proportional changes
    zgrab:
      ~weird number of 301 status codes in 2019 443 without sni...
        idk maybe should do zgrab multiple times or something
      timely: slight improvement
      self signed: slight improvement
      browser trusted: slight improvement (best of these for 443 without sni)
      fp: all duplicates seem to come from having the same host, so ok
      key lengths: all ok
      cipher suites: slightly worse (except for 0x0005)~
    dns:
      AAAA, CAA, SPF: slight improvement
      MX, TXT: ok improvement
      DS: used to have 1, now 0...
    MX:
      Self owned: vs hosted: decrease in self owned
      Num hosts: quite a bit less (weird, good/bad?)
        Seems like most of these were hosts with 1 school, who moved to ones with multiple, but idk
        Quite a few more in outlook, otherwise small differences
    Names:
      443 with sni:
        Self owned vs hosted: ok increase in self owned
        Num hosts: mid more (a few changes of ~10)
        Uncategorised: quite different
      443 without sni:
        Self owned vs hosted: ok increase in self owned
        Num hosts: slight more (mostly odin (+20))
        Uncategorised: quite different, way more stdeclans
      note: distinction between categorised and not is irrelevant
  overall:
    mostly slightly better, (maybe insignificantly so)
    except more hosted for mx (which might be bad)
      and maybe cipher suites (maybe insignificant, but note 0x2f for 443 without sni)
  so could focus on them being bad, and how they're not going to improve significantly by themselves


answered:
  ports: (openssl client)
    if 404 at 443's means they don't exist
      how come there are 404's but still data can be found? - bad configuration on their behalf
      does that mean just port 80 at this url? - no
    why one 443 (of with/without) exists while the other doesn't - maybe my fault; just do separately, it's ok for 2018
    note: having all -1's isn't reliable; some just didn't give good responses, doesn't necessarily mean no ssl
    i.e. how to know which just have port 80? - for 2018; check if 443 returned stuff, 2019; check seperately with zgrab/openssl
  stdeclans & maryimmaculate...? (now back to stdeclans...) - weird stuff, maybe note it
    e.g. zgrab --port 443 --lookup-domain --tls -http / --timeout 4
      109.200.26.186 (stlaurencecollege.com)
      109.200.26.186 (colaistemhuire.ie)
      109.200.26.186 (stdeclanscollege.ie)
      same ip
  what's interesting about cnames? - just how many there are really
  is there a better way of showing dns? - log
    spf's: most probably do have them, they're just stored in txt (separate SPF records were added later, and few people ever moved over)
  i don't entirely understand names;
    so its the person who signed the ssl cert?
      does that mean that person is the host?
        or were they the company that provided the cert?
      how does this relate to self signed?
    -basically all of the urls that are on the same list (same key/ip/whatever)
      -interesting if there's some dodgy websites on the same list as schools (doesn't seem like there is)
  why is bools worse for without sni? - many hosts self sign, not a big deal if the school's site isn't self signed
  is it good to have an ipv6? - yes, better in a bunch of ways
  (kinda) why do some schools - lose dns stuff (e.g. that one ds) from 2018-2019? they expire i guess?
  what does no mx(/txt) mean? - that mail doesn't exist, so can't have name@school.ie, have to use gmail etc.
    (what about txt?)

~~~~~AAAA isn't working right now???~~~~~~

notes:
  best way to inc lsetb?
  he removed all of the unknown/bad urls completely in 2018, so they aren't being added to the count... (653/716)
  cipher suites:
    47(0x2f): doesn't use ephemeral keys, so no forward secrecy, i.e. has a static key, so if the key is found, it can be used for all previous encryptions as well
  how bad is it to not have dns records?
    spf: ok to not have
    caa: bit better to have
    ds: useful but risky

  keys graph
    check if shared
    check individually for interesting stuff
      seems like odin shares keys between its users (maybe plesk too?)
      there's a lot with different names but the same key though
  -what i've done is gotten all dups for keys,
    then with them, i've checked the names associated with each site using that key
    to see if there's any correlation
      i.e. if all of those sites are being hosted by one hoster, therefore that hoster must share keys between (groups of) its users
    if there's a bunch of individual sites with the same key, something strange might be going on

TODO:
  finish keys stuff
    see above
    how to show?
      could just show pie chart of duplicate keys, and just say could look into this more idk
        wouldnt need legend for this
        maybe look into TXTs?
        redirects


  finalising;
    titles
    graph layouts (n/total etc.)
    actual text

AddWebDetail
  should only be adding redirects & errors from the url we used
  need to do port 80 with SNI
    only for ones where p80 didnt work
    will need to do ones with timeouts multiple times; might just not have waited long enough


    <h2>lcetb(~)</h2>
    <h3>Method:</h3>
    checked emails' postfixes(?) given
    if from manually created list of external urls (e.g. eircom.net, lcetb.ie), removed all copies,
    else removed any dups
    <h3>Analysis:</h3>
    came across a lot of emails from gmail etc., and a lot from lcetb
    former could be an issue bc of sensitive information, although will be more secure?
    latter depends on how good those urls are ...check them (they're basically the same as everything else)
